## Greater individual variability in functional brain activity during working memory performance in Schizophrenia Spectrum Disorders (SSD)
Heterogeneity has been a persistent challenge in understanding Schizophrenia Spectrum Disorders (SSD). Traditional case-control comparisons often show variable results, and may not map well onto individuals. To better understand heterogeneity and group differences in SSD compared to typically developing controls (TDC), we examined variability in functional brain activity during a working memory (WM) task with known deficits in SSD. Neuroimaging and behavioural data were extracted from two datasets collectively providing 34 TDC and 56 individuals with SSD (n = 90). Functional activity in response to an N-Back WM task (3-Back vs 1-Back) was examined between and within groups. Individual variability was calculated via the correlational distance of fMRI activity maps between participants; mean correlational distance from one participant to all others was defined as a 'variability score'. Greater individual variability in functional activity was found in SSD compared to TDC (p = 0.00090). At the group level, a case-control comparison suggested SSD had reduced activity in task positive and task negative networks. However, when SSD were divided into high and low variability subgroups, the low variability groups showed no differences relative to TDC while the high variability group showed little activity at the group level. Our results imply prior case-control differences may be driven by a subgroup of SSD who do not show specific impairments but instead show more 'idiosyncratic' activity patterns. In SSD but not TDC, variability was also related to cognitive performance and age. This novel approach focusing on individual variability has important implications for understanding the neurobiology of SSD.
